Lighting the Environment in Unreal Engine | Unreal Engine 5.7 Documentation | Epic Developer Community Table of Contents
Developer

Lighting the Environment

Lighting the Environment

Topics that demonstrate features and tools for lighting scenes.
On this page
A significant part of building any virtual world is determining how it will be lit. This means being able to efficiently light small enclosed scenes with small lights to large worlds primarily lit by single dominant light source. The engine provides the tools and lighting options necessary to achieve the results your project's demand.

The topics in this page contains information on the the various lighting features and tools available to use, along with guides that create a learning path to the ins and outs of lighting a scene in Unreal Engine.

Lighting Features

Lumen Global Illumination and Reflections

Take a look at a high-level overview of Lumen's dynamic global illumination and reflections features.

Lumen Technical Details

Dive into the technical details of using Lumen's global illumination and reflections features with software or hardware ray tracing.

Virtual Shadow Maps

Learn about the high-resolution shadow techniques designed with film-quality assets and large dynamically lit open worlds in mind.

Lighting Essentials

Light Types and Their Mobility

The available types of lights to choose from and how their mobility settings affect lighting in the scene.

Direct Lighting

An overview of the various properties and features that lights support.

Designing Visuals, Rendering, and Graphics

Rendering subsystem including lighting and shadowing, materials and textures, visual effects, and post processing.

Lighting Features and Tools

Environmental Light with Fog, Clouds, Sky and Atmosphere

Components and tools that enable users to build immersive worlds with environment lighting from fog, clouds, sky and atmosphere.

Global Illumination

A collection of topics on the global illumination options available to choose from.

Lumen Global Illumination and Reflections

Take a look at a high-level overview of Lumen's dynamic global illumination and reflections features.

Mesh Distance Fields

An overview of Mesh Distance Fields and its available features that you can use when developing your games.

Hardware Ray Tracing and Path Tracing Features

Explore topics for setting up and using real-time hardware ray tracing and path tracing to render scenes using ray-traced lighting features.

Shadowing

An overview of available shadowing methods and the properties they support.

Virtual Shadow Maps

Learn about the high-resolution shadow techniques designed with film-quality assets and large dynamically lit open worlds in mind.

Reflections Environment

Systems for how reflections are captured and displayed on reflective surfaces.

Lighting Tools and Plugins

Lighting Tools and Plugins

A collection of tools and plugins that are useful for lighting scenes.

Contact Shadows

An overview of using screen space shadowing to harden shadow contact points.

Capsule Shadows

Information on using phsyics capsules for dynamic soft shadowing of Skeletal Meshes.

General

Post Process Effects

Learn about the effects that can be applied through placed-volumes and cameras. These art-directed effects can define the look and feel of your scenes with coloring, tonemapping, lighting, and more.

Volumetric Fog

An overview of the volumetric fog and lighting options available with the Exponential Height Fog Component.

Light Shafts

An overview of using Direcitonal Light to simulate light scattering through the atmosphere.

Using Transparency in Materials

This page explains how to use transparency in your Materials.

Using Bump Offset

Guide for using the Bump Offset node in your Materials.

IES Light Profiles

An overview of setting up and using IES textures with lights.

HDRI Backdrop Visualization Tool

A Blueprint tool to quickly set up product visualization using an HDR image projection with real-time lighting and shadowing.

rendering

lighting

shadowing

global illumination

reflections

Ask questions and help your peers Developer Forums

Write your own tutorials or read those from others Learning Library
On this page
Lighting Features

Lighting Essentials

Lighting Features and Tools

Lighting Tools and Plugins

General
